cache_me_if_you_can/docs/workshop/content/3-advanced-caching/1-weather-api/index.en.md, before:

# 3.1 Weather API Caching

## Overview

Learn to use Valkey to cache external API responses, reducing both latency and costs. This demo showcases the cache-aside pattern with lazy loading for weather data from OpenWeatherMap API, demonstrating how caching can dramatically improve performance and reduce API costs.

## Objectives

- Cache external API responses effectively using cache-aside pattern
- Reduce API call costs by up to 99%
- Improve response times from 400-600ms to sub-millisecond
- Handle multiple cities and countries with distributed locking
- Prevent cache stampede with proper synchronization

## Use Case

Weather data from external APIs is perfect for caching because:
- **Weather doesn't change frequently**: Data remains valid for 15-60 minutes
- **API calls have rate limits and costs**: Most weather APIs charge per request
- **Users often query the same locations**: Popular cities get repeated requests
- **High latency**: External API calls typically take 300-600ms
- **Reliability concerns**: External services may be slow or temporarily unavailable

## The Problem

External API calls introduce several challenges:

- **High Latency**: Network round-trips to third-party services typically take 300-600ms per request
- **API Costs**: Many APIs charge per request, making frequent calls expensive
- **Rate Limits**: APIs often limit the number of requests per time period
- **Reliability**: External services may be slow or temporarily unavailable

## The Solution: Cache-Aside with Distributed Locking

The implementation uses cache-aside pattern with distributed locking to prevent cache stampede:

1. **Check Cache First**: Before calling the API, check if the data exists in cache
2. **Cache Miss**: If not cached, acquire a distributed lock
3. **Call API**: Fetch data from OpenWeatherMap API
4. **Store in Cache**: Save the API response with TTL (15 minutes default)
5. **Cache Hit**: Subsequent requests return data from cache instantly

### Flow Diagram

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant App as Application
    participant Cache as Valkey Cache
    participant Lock as Distributed Lock
    participant API as OpenWeatherMap API
    
    rect rgb(255, 243, 205)
    Note over App,API: First Request - Cache Miss
    App->>Cache: GET weather:in:400001
    Cache-->>App: (nil) - Cache Miss
    App->>Lock: ACQUIRE lock:weather:in:400001
    Lock-->>App: ✓ Lock Acquired
    App->>API: GET /weather?zip=400001,in
    Note over API: External API Call<br/>~640ms
    API-->>App: Weather Data (JSON)
    App->>Cache: SETEX weather:in:400001 900 [data]
    Cache-->>App: ✓ OK
    App->>Lock: RELEASE lock:weather:in:400001
    Lock-->>App: ✓ Released
    App-->>App: Return weather data
    Note over App: Total: ~640ms
    end
    
    rect rgb(212, 237, 218)
    Note over App,API: Second Request - Cache Hit
    App->>Cache: GET weather:in:400001
    Cache-->>App: [cached data] ⚡
    App-->>App: Return weather data
    Note over App: Total: ~1ms (640x faster!)
    end
```

## Hands-on Demo

Let's see the options available in the script:

:::code{showCopyAction=true showLineNumbers=true language=bash}
uv run samples/demo_weather_api_cache.py --help
:::

::::expand{header="Expected Output" defaultExpanded=false variant=container}

:::code{showCopyAction=false showLineNumbers=true language=bash}
Usage: demo_weather_api_cache.py [OPTIONS]

 Run the weather API cache-aside pattern demonstration

╭─ Options ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ --ttl                 -t      INTEGER  Cache TTL in minutes (15, 30, or 60) [default: 15]                                                                                        │
│ --cities              -c      INTEGER  Number of random cities to test (1-95) [default: 10]                                                                                      │
│ --interactive         -i               Run demo step-by-step with prompts                                                                                                        │
│ --verbose             -v               Show detailed information and cache keys                                                                                                  │
│ --flush               -f               Flush cache before running demo                                                                                                           │
│ --install-completion                   Install completion for the current shell.                                                                                                 │
│ --show-completion                      Show completion for the current shell, to copy it or customize the installation.                                                          │
│ --help                                 Show this message and exit.                                                                                                               │
╰──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
:::

::::

Run the demo in interactive mode with verbose output:

:::code{showCopyAction=true showLineNumbers=true language=bash}
uv run samples/demo_weather_api_cache.py -i -f -v
:::

### Demo Configuration

The demo tests 10 random cities from around the world:

**Selected Cities (Example):**
| # | City | Country | ZIP |
|---|------|---------|-----|
| 1 | Mumbai | 🇮🇳 IN | 400001 |
| 2 | Edinburgh | 🇬🇧 GB | EH1 |
| 3 | Vancouver | 🇨🇦 CA | V6B |
| 4 | Perth | 🇦🇺 AU | 6000 |
| 5 | São Paulo | 🇧🇷 BR | 01310 |
| 6 | Córdoba | 🇦🇷 AR | X5000 |
| 7 | Semarang | 🇮🇩 ID | 50241 |
| 8 | Madrid | 🇪🇸 ES | 28001 |
| 9 | Toronto | 🇨🇦 CA | M5H |
| 10 | Monterrey | 🇲🇽 MX | 64000 |

**Configuration:**
- **Cache TTL**: 15 minutes (900 seconds)
- **Cache Key Format**: `weather:<country>:<zip>`
- **Number of Cities**: 10

### Phase 1: Fetch Without Cache (Baseline)

The demo first fetches weather data directly from the API without caching:

**Sample API Response (Mumbai):**
```json
{
  "coord": {"lon": 72.8777, "lat": 19.076},
  "weather": [
    {
      "id": 500,
      "main": "Rain",
      "description": "light rain",
      "icon": "10d"
    }
  ],
  "main": {
    "temp": 74.1,
    "feels_like": 62.1,
    "temp_min": 72.4,
    "temp_max": 84.4,
    "pressure": 1023,
    "humidity": 67
  },
  "wind": {"speed": 3.3, "deg": 273, "gust": 8.4},
  "name": "Mumbai",
  "cod": 200
}
```

**Performance Results (10 cities):**
- Mumbai: 465.767ms 🌦️
- Edinburgh: 360.689ms ☀️
- Vancouver: 615.124ms 🌦️
- Perth: 395.940ms ☀️
- São Paulo: 439.549ms 🌦️
- Córdoba: 611.646ms 🌦️
- Semarang: 639.258ms 🌦️
- Madrid: 572.894ms 🌦️
- Toronto: 351.061ms 🌦️
- Monterrey: 334.202ms 🌤️

**Total Time: 4.876s** (average 487.6ms per city)

### Phase 2: First Fetch With Cache (Populating)

The second phase fetches the same cities with caching enabled. Since the cache is empty, all requests are cache misses that populate the cache:

**Cache Key Examples:**
- `weather:in:400001` (Mumbai, India)
- `weather:gb:EH1` (Edinburgh, UK)
- `weather:ca:V6B` (Vancouver, Canada)
- `weather:au:6000` (Perth, Australia)

**Performance Results:**
- All 10 cities: **CACHE MISS (populated)**
- Latency range: 279-752ms (similar to direct API calls)
- **Total Time: 5.180s**

**Cache Statistics:**
- Hits: 0
- Misses: 10
- Hit Rate: 0.0%

### Phase 3: Second Fetch With Cache (Using Cache)

The third phase fetches the same cities again. Now all data is in cache:

**Performance Results:**
- Mumbai: **1.004ms** ✓ 🌦️ (was 465ms)
- Edinburgh: **0.566ms** ✓ 🌨️ (was 360ms)
- Vancouver: **0.590ms** ✓ 🌦️ (was 615ms)
- Perth: **0.586ms** ✓ 🌨️ (was 395ms)
- São Paulo: **0.482ms** ✓ 🌤️ (was 439ms)
- Córdoba: **0.435ms** ✓ 🌨️ (was 611ms)
- Semarang: **0.453ms** ✓ 🌤️ (was 639ms)
- Madrid: **0.567ms** ✓ ☀️ (was 572ms)
- Toronto: **0.471ms** ✓ ☀️ (was 351ms)
- Monterrey: **0.473ms** ✓ ☀️ (was 334ms)

**Total Time: 22.926ms** (average 2.3ms per city)

**Cache Statistics:**
- Hits: 10
- Misses: 0
- Hit Rate: **100.0%**

### Running Without Flush

Run the demo again without flushing to see cache hits immediately:

:::code{showCopyAction=true showLineNumbers=true language=bash}
uv run samples/demo_weather_api_cache.py -i
:::

This will show cache hits for any cities that were previously queried within the TTL window.

## Performance Metrics

### Performance Comparison

| Scenario | Time | vs Baseline | Note |
|----------|------|-------------|------|
| **Without cache** 🐌 | 4.876s | 1.0x | Direct API calls |
| **With cache (1st run)** ⚡ | 5.180s | 0.9x | Populating cache |
| **With cache (2nd run)** 🚀 | **22.926ms** | **212.7x** | Using cache |

### Cache Benefits

| Metric | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **Time saved** ⏱️ | 4.853s |
| **Speedup** ⚡ | **212.7x faster** |
| **Efficiency** 📈 | **99.5% reduction** |
| **Avg per city (cached)** 🏙️ | 2.293ms |
| **Avg per city (uncached)** 🏙️ | 487.616ms |

### Latency Reduction

| Scenario | Latency | Speedup |
|----------|---------|---------|
| **Direct API Call** | 400-600ms | 1.0x (baseline) |
| **Cache Hit** | 0.5-1ms | **400-1200x faster** |

### Cost Savings Analysis

With a 15-minute TTL:
- **Without Cache**: 1 API call per request
- **With Cache**: 1 API call per 15 minutes (for the same location)
- **Savings**: Up to 99% reduction in API calls for frequently requested locations

**Example Calculation:**

For a weather app with 1000 users checking weather every 5 minutes:
- **Without Cache**: 1000 users × 12 checks/hour = **12,000 API calls/hour**
- **With Cache (15 min TTL)**: ~4 API calls/hour per location
- **Cost Reduction**: **~99.97% fewer API calls**

### Cache Status

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| **Total entries** 🗄️ | 10 weather records |
| **TTL** ⏰ | 15 minutes (900 seconds) |
| **Hit rate (Run #2)** ✅ | 100.0% |
| **Sample keys** 🔑 | `weather:in:400001`, `weather:gb:EH1`, `weather:au:6000` |

## Cache Key Strategy

The demo uses a structured cache key format:

```
weather:<country_code>:<zip_code>
```

**Examples:**
- `weather:jp:100-0001` (Tokyo, Japan)
- `weather:us:10001` (New York, USA)
- `weather:gb:sw1a` (London, UK)

This format ensures:
- **Uniqueness**: Each location has a unique key
- **Readability**: Easy to understand and debug
- **Pattern Matching**: Can query all weather keys with `weather:*`

## TTL Configuration

The Time-To-Live determines how long data stays cached:

| TTL | Use Case | Trade-off |
|-----|----------|-----------|
| **15 minutes** | Real-time weather apps | More API calls, fresher data |
| **30 minutes** | General weather info | Balanced approach |
| **60 minutes** | Weather trends/history | Fewer API calls, older data |

## Distributed Locking

The implementation uses distributed locking to prevent **cache stampede** (multiple simultaneous requests for the same uncached data):

1. When a cache miss occurs, acquire a lock for that cache key
2. Other requests wait for the lock holder to populate the cache
3. Once populated, all waiting requests get the cached data
4. This prevents duplicate API calls and reduces load

## Key Takeaways

- **Dramatic Performance Improvement**: 212.7x faster response times with cache hits
- **Cost Reduction**: Up to 99.97% reduction in API calls
- **Distributed Locking**: Prevents cache stampede and duplicate API calls
- **Configurable TTL**: Balance between data freshness and performance (15-60 minutes)
- **Lazy Loading**: Cache is populated on-demand, not proactively
- **Resilience**: Application continues working even if cache fails (falls back to API)
- **Real-time Data**: Weather includes temperature, conditions, and emoji visualization

## When to Use This Pattern

✅ **Good For:**
- External API calls with high latency (300-600ms+)
- APIs with usage-based pricing
- Data that doesn't change frequently (weather, exchange rates, etc.)
- High-traffic applications with repeated requests
- APIs with rate limits

❌ **Not Ideal For:**
- Data that must be real-time (stock prices, live sports scores)
- APIs with no latency or cost concerns
- Data that changes constantly
- Single-use queries with no repetition

Commit message:

Simplify weather API workshop content by focusing on core cache-aside pattern
- Remove distributed locking complexity from main explanation to focus on cache-aside fundamentals
- Simplify flow diagram by removing lock acquisition/release steps
- Update objectives to emphasize TTL configuration over advanced locking concepts
- Add instruction to run demo multiple times to observe cache hits for repeated cities
- Streamline key takeaways to highlight cache-aside pattern benefits and structured key format
- Maintain performance metrics and cost analysis while reducing conceptual complexity
- Make content more accessible for workshop participants learning basic caching patterns

cache_me_if_you_can/docs/workshop/content/3-advanced-caching/1-weather-api/index.en.md, after:

# 3.1 Weather API Caching

## Overview

Learn to use Valkey to cache external API responses, reducing both latency and costs. This demo showcases the cache-aside pattern with lazy loading for weather data from OpenWeatherMap API, demonstrating how caching can dramatically improve performance and reduce API costs.

## Objectives

- Cache external API responses effectively using cache-aside pattern
- Reduce API call costs by up to 99%
- Improve response times from 400-600ms to sub-millisecond
- Handle multiple cities and countries efficiently
- Understand TTL configuration for data freshness

## Use Case

Weather data from external APIs is perfect for caching because:
- **Weather doesn't change frequently**: Data remains valid for 15-60 minutes
- **API calls have rate limits and costs**: Most weather APIs charge per request
- **Users often query the same locations**: Popular cities get repeated requests
- **High latency**: External API calls typically take 300-600ms
- **Reliability concerns**: External services may be slow or temporarily unavailable

## The Problem

External API calls introduce several challenges:

- **High Latency**: Network round-trips to third-party services typically take 300-600ms per request
- **API Costs**: Many APIs charge per request, making frequent calls expensive
- **Rate Limits**: APIs often limit the number of requests per time period
- **Reliability**: External services may be slow or temporarily unavailable

## The Solution: Cache-Aside Pattern

The implementation uses the cache-aside pattern to optimize API calls:

1. **Check Cache First**: Before calling the API, check if the data exists in cache
2. **Cache Miss**: If not cached, call the external API
3. **Store in Cache**: Save the API response with TTL (15 minutes default)
4. **Cache Hit**: Subsequent requests return data from cache instantly

### Flow Diagram

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant App as Application
    participant Cache as Valkey Cache
    participant API as OpenWeatherMap API
    
    rect rgb(255, 243, 205)
    Note over App,API: First Request - Cache Miss
    App->>Cache: GET weather:in:400001
    Cache-->>App: (nil) - Cache Miss
    App->>API: GET /weather?zip=400001,in
    Note over API: External API Call<br/>~640ms
    API-->>App: Weather Data (JSON)
    App->>Cache: SETEX weather:in:400001 900 [data]
    Cache-->>App: ✓ OK
    App-->>App: Return weather data
    Note over App: Total: ~640ms
    end
    
    rect rgb(212, 237, 218)
    Note over App,API: Second Request - Cache Hit
    App->>Cache: GET weather:in:400001
    Cache-->>App: [cached data] ⚡
    App-->>App: Return weather data
    Note over App: Total: ~1ms (640x faster!)
    end
```

## Hands-on Demo

Let's see the options available in the script:

:::code{showCopyAction=true showLineNumbers=true language=bash}
uv run samples/demo_weather_api_cache.py --help
:::

::::expand{header="Expected Output" defaultExpanded=false variant=container}

:::code{showCopyAction=false showLineNumbers=true language=bash}
Usage: demo_weather_api_cache.py [OPTIONS]

 Run the weather API cache-aside pattern demonstration

╭─ Options ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ --ttl                 -t      INTEGER  Cache TTL in minutes (15, 30, or 60) [default: 15]                                                                                        │
│ --cities              -c      INTEGER  Number of random cities to test (1-95) [default: 10]                                                                                      │
│ --interactive         -i               Run demo step-by-step with prompts                                                                                                        │
│ --verbose             -v               Show detailed information and cache keys                                                                                                  │
│ --flush               -f               Flush cache before running demo                                                                                                           │
│ --install-completion                   Install completion for the current shell.                                                                                                 │
│ --show-completion                      Show completion for the current shell, to copy it or customize the installation.                                                          │
│ --help                                 Show this message and exit.                                                                                                               │
╰──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
:::

::::

Run the demo in interactive mode with verbose output:

:::code{showCopyAction=true showLineNumbers=true language=bash}
uv run samples/demo_weather_api_cache.py -i -f -v
:::

Run the demo a couple more times without flushing the cache to see performance benefits for previously seen cities:

:::code{showCopyAction=true showLineNumbers=true language=bash}
uv run samples/demo_weather_api_cache.py -i
:::

### Demo Configuration

The demo tests 10 random cities from around the world:

**Selected Cities (Example):**
| # | City | Country | ZIP |
|---|------|---------|-----|
| 1 | Mumbai | 🇮🇳 IN | 400001 |
| 2 | Edinburgh | 🇬🇧 GB | EH1 |
| 3 | Vancouver | 🇨🇦 CA | V6B |
| 4 | Perth | 🇦🇺 AU | 6000 |
| 5 | São Paulo | 🇧🇷 BR | 01310 |
| 6 | Córdoba | 🇦🇷 AR | X5000 |
| 7 | Semarang | 🇮🇩 ID | 50241 |
| 8 | Madrid | 🇪🇸 ES | 28001 |
| 9 | Toronto | 🇨🇦 CA | M5H |
| 10 | Monterrey | 🇲🇽 MX | 64000 |

**Configuration:**
- **Cache TTL**: 15 minutes (900 seconds)
- **Cache Key Format**: `weather:<country>:<zip>`
- **Number of Cities**: 10

### Phase 1: Fetch Without Cache (Baseline)

The demo first fetches weather data directly from the API without caching:

**Sample API Response (Mumbai):**
```json
{
  "coord": {"lon": 72.8777, "lat": 19.076},
  "weather": [
    {
      "id": 500,
      "main": "Rain",
      "description": "light rain",
      "icon": "10d"
    }
  ],
  "main": {
    "temp": 74.1,
    "feels_like": 62.1,
    "temp_min": 72.4,
    "temp_max": 84.4,
    "pressure": 1023,
    "humidity": 67
  },
  "wind": {"speed": 3.3, "deg": 273, "gust": 8.4},
  "name": "Mumbai",
  "cod": 200
}
```

**Performance Results (10 cities):**
- Mumbai: 465.767ms 🌦️
- Edinburgh: 360.689ms ☀️
- Vancouver: 615.124ms 🌦️
- Perth: 395.940ms ☀️
- São Paulo: 439.549ms 🌦️
- Córdoba: 611.646ms 🌦️
- Semarang: 639.258ms 🌦️
- Madrid: 572.894ms 🌦️
- Toronto: 351.061ms 🌦️
- Monterrey: 334.202ms 🌤️

**Total Time: 4.876s** (average 487.6ms per city)

### Phase 2: First Fetch With Cache (Populating)

The second phase fetches the same cities with caching enabled. Since the cache is empty, all requests are cache misses that populate the cache:

**Cache Key Examples:**
- `weather:in:400001` (Mumbai, India)
- `weather:gb:EH1` (Edinburgh, UK)
- `weather:ca:V6B` (Vancouver, Canada)
- `weather:au:6000` (Perth, Australia)

**Performance Results:**
- All 10 cities: **CACHE MISS (populated)**
- Latency range: 279-752ms (similar to direct API calls)
- **Total Time: 5.180s**

**Cache Statistics:**
- Hits: 0
- Misses: 10
- Hit Rate: 0.0%

### Phase 3: Second Fetch With Cache (Using Cache)

The third phase fetches the same cities again. Now all data is in cache:

**Performance Results:**
- Mumbai: **1.004ms** ✓ 🌦️ (was 465ms)
- Edinburgh: **0.566ms** ✓ 🌨️ (was 360ms)
- Vancouver: **0.590ms** ✓ 🌦️ (was 615ms)
- Perth: **0.586ms** ✓ 🌨️ (was 395ms)
- São Paulo: **0.482ms** ✓ 🌤️ (was 439ms)
- Córdoba: **0.435ms** ✓ 🌨️ (was 611ms)
- Semarang: **0.453ms** ✓ 🌤️ (was 639ms)
- Madrid: **0.567ms** ✓ ☀️ (was 572ms)
- Toronto: **0.471ms** ✓ ☀️ (was 351ms)
- Monterrey: **0.473ms** ✓ ☀️ (was 334ms)

**Total Time: 22.926ms** (average 2.3ms per city)

**Cache Statistics:**
- Hits: 10
- Misses: 0
- Hit Rate: **100.0%**

### Running Without Flush

Run the demo again without flushing to see cache hits immediately:

:::code{showCopyAction=true showLineNumbers=true language=bash}
uv run samples/demo_weather_api_cache.py -i
:::

This will show cache hits for any cities that were previously queried within the TTL window.

## Performance Metrics

### Performance Comparison

| Scenario | Time | vs Baseline | Note |
|----------|------|-------------|------|
| **Without cache** 🐌 | 4.876s | 1.0x | Direct API calls |
| **With cache (1st run)** ⚡ | 5.180s | 0.9x | Populating cache |
| **With cache (2nd run)** 🚀 | **22.926ms** | **212.7x** | Using cache |

### Cache Benefits

| Metric | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **Time saved** ⏱️ | 4.853s |
| **Speedup** ⚡ | **212.7x faster** |
| **Efficiency** 📈 | **99.5% reduction** |
| **Avg per city (cached)** 🏙️ | 2.293ms |
| **Avg per city (uncached)** 🏙️ | 487.616ms |

### Latency Reduction

| Scenario | Latency | Speedup |
|----------|---------|---------|
| **Direct API Call** | 400-600ms | 1.0x (baseline) |
| **Cache Hit** | 0.5-1ms | **400-1200x faster** |

### Cost Savings Analysis

With a 15-minute TTL:
- **Without Cache**: 1 API call per request
- **With Cache**: 1 API call per 15 minutes (for the same location)
- **Savings**: Up to 99% reduction in API calls for frequently requested locations

**Example Calculation:**

For a weather app with 1000 users checking weather every 5 minutes:
- **Without Cache**: 1000 users × 12 checks/hour = **12,000 API calls/hour**
- **With Cache (15 min TTL)**: ~4 API calls/hour per location
- **Cost Reduction**: **~99.97% fewer API calls**

### Cache Status

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| **Total entries** 🗄️ | 10 weather records |
| **TTL** ⏰ | 15 minutes (900 seconds) |
| **Hit rate (Run #2)** ✅ | 100.0% |
| **Sample keys** 🔑 | `weather:in:400001`, `weather:gb:EH1`, `weather:au:6000` |

## Cache Key Strategy

The demo uses a structured cache key format:

```
weather:<country_code>:<zip_code>
```

**Examples:**
- `weather:jp:100-0001` (Tokyo, Japan)
- `weather:us:10001` (New York, USA)
- `weather:gb:sw1a` (London, UK)

This format ensures:
- **Uniqueness**: Each location has a unique key
- **Readability**: Easy to understand and debug
- **Pattern Matching**: Can query all weather keys with `weather:*`

## TTL Configuration

The Time-To-Live determines how long data stays cached:

| TTL | Use Case | Trade-off |
|-----|----------|-----------|
| **15 minutes** | Real-time weather apps | More API calls, fresher data |
| **30 minutes** | General weather info | Balanced approach |
| **60 minutes** | Weather trends/history | Fewer API calls, older data |

## Key Takeaways

- **Dramatic Performance Improvement**: 212.7x faster response times with cache hits
- **Cost Reduction**: Up to 99.97% reduction in API calls
- **Cache-Aside Pattern**: Simple and effective for external API caching
- **Configurable TTL**: Balance between data freshness and performance (15-60 minutes)
- **Lazy Loading**: Cache is populated on-demand, not proactively
- **Resilience**: Application continues working even if cache fails (falls back to API)
- **Real-time Data**: Weather includes temperature, conditions, and emoji visualization
- **Structured Keys**: `weather:<country>:<zip>` format ensures uniqueness and readability

## When to Use This Pattern

✅ **Good For:**
- External API calls with high latency (300-600ms+)
- APIs with usage-based pricing
- Data that doesn't change frequently (weather, exchange rates, etc.)
- High-traffic applications with repeated requests
- APIs with rate limits

❌ **Not Ideal For:**
- Data that must be real-time (stock prices, live sports scores)
- APIs with no latency or cost concerns
- Data that changes constantly
- Single-use queries with no repetition
